# SPIR-Oz
A Simple, Powerful, Intersectoral and Regional model of Australia (SPIR-Oz pronounced Spyros). Spyros is an abbreviation of Spyridon (Σπυρίδων), which, in ancient Greek, means "basket used to carry seeds". In this case, the seeds of future growth and prosperity in Australia.

SPIR-Oz is a modern intersectoral macroeconomic model with production networks similar to the Australian Treasury's Intersectoral Model (TIM). It is an adaptation of the simple but powerful solution method of Cai and Judd (2021), the python code of Scheidegger and Bilionis (2019) and the  a intersectoral framework similar to Atalay (2017). We estimate and calibrate economic parameters for Australia, Queensland and regions within Queensland in particular. 

We aim to answer questions relating to 2050 net-zero targets. For instance, what is the present value of a Qld net-zero target beyond that of Australia?

The result is a fully intertemporal model of the Australian economy that is smaller, yet deeper, than TIM. In contrast with TIM, our model accommodates uncertainty, is regional and has a global solution method. That is, instead of log-linearising around the non-stochastic steady state, we generate a large number sample paths using the Stochastic Certainty-Equivalent approximation of Cai and Judd to obtain statistical moments of the full solution. In contrast with Cai--Judd, our model involves multiple industries and our code is fully open-source (in python) and builds on Scheidegger and Bilionis (2019). Since we are interested in regional transition in Queensland across industries, we build in the functional forms for inter-industry capital allocations and production of Atalay (2017). Finally, a novel feature of our model is the groupoid or Jacobi property for inter-sectoral/regional savings. Without any loss of generality, this ensures the model dimension is linear rather than quadratic in the number of sectors and regions.
